1.Hypoglycaemia (when the level of glucose in the blood falls below normal) is usually due to an overdose of insulin in children with diabetes. 
2.Study of liver- Hepatology.
3.Study of plant is botany or Phytology.
4.Study of fossils is called peleontology.
5.In hapatitis disease liver is effected.Lever worked as detoxification.Liver convert amonia to urea.Liver produce a chemical called Bile which helps us in food diegestion.
6.Nephrology is study of kidney.
7.Study of Hair is Tricology.
8.Study of Skin is Dermetology.
9.Study of Heart is Cardiology.
10.There are 4 hotspot(lots of plant and animal, vegitation) in India- The Eastern Himalays,The western ghats,Indo-Burma(Mayanmar) Region, Sundalands. 
       In 1988 Norman mayer given the concept of hotspot.There are 34 hotspot in the world.
11.Digestive acid in human body HCL( Hydrochloric acid).
12.Myopia is the disease in which we can see nearby object but not see distant object.
13.Hypermetropiya  is just reverse of myopia.
14.Our eye has convex lense.
15.Difference of mirror and lense is light reflect from mirror but ligt pass through lense.
16.White portion of eye is called sclera & black portion is Iris. Inside aris there is pupil.
17.There is a curtain behind eye known as Ratina.
18.Image create on the eye is reverse and then optic nerve converge it to orignal.
19.For curing Myopiya we need concave lens. Hypermetropiya need convex lens.
20.33 bones in spinal cord.
21.There are 206 bones in human body. 
22.Study of human is Anthropology.
23.Study of art of growing plant and trees- Horticulture.
24.Study of flower- Anthology.
25.Study of reptile- Herpetology.
26.Study of Spider- Arachnology.
27.Study of animal- Zoology.
28.Louis Pasteur( France) also known as father of micro-biology. 
29.Nephron Belongs to Kidney.
30.RBC- Red blood cell.
31.Lack of hemoglobine is Anemia. Anaemia is a condition wherein one lacks healthy red blood cells to carry adequate oxygen to the bodyís tissues. Anaemic children, 
    therefore, are weak, fatigued and unable to grow to their full potential. While iron defiÅciency is one of the major triggers. 
32.Length of digestive system is 30 feet.
33.Arteries carry blood that are filled with oxygen.
34.Function of lens in our eye is to change the focal distance of the eye.
35.The cell was first discovered by Robert Hookee in 1665.
36.Ratio of Red blood cell(RBC):White blood cell(WBC)-600:1
37.Color of urine in yello is because of urochrome.
38.Pancreas is both exocrine and endocrine
39.Pancreas is responsible for the secretion of insulin.
40.Eye specialist is called OPthalmologist.
41.Longest Bone in human Body Femur.
42.Smallest bone is "Stapes" present in middle of the ear of human body.
43.Pepsin digest protiens in stomach.
44.Holotrophic organisms that eat other organisms.
45.Biogas is produced from biomass by anaerobic fermentation.
46.The filtration units in the human kidney are known as Nephron.
47.Plants used Jatropa curcas for production of biofuel.
48.Fluid part of Blood after removal of Corpuscles is called serum.
49.Tissue between the top and bottom of the bipolar is called Mesophyll tissue.
50.Fertilisation occurs in the Fallopian tube.
51.Nodes of Ranvier are microscopic gaps found within myelinated axons.
52.Muscle contains special proteins called contractile proteins.
53.Bryophyllum flowering plants are buds produced in the notches along the leaf margin.
54.The spinal cord originates from Medulla.
55.Tissue are Cells whichare similar in origin, form and function.
56.Vas deferens is the straight tube, about 40 cm long, that carries sperms to the seminal vesicles.
57.Tooth decay starts when the pH of the mouth is lower than 5.5.
58.Bone cells  are embedded in a hard matrix that is composed of calcium and phosphorus.
59.Gustatory receptors are the receptors for detecting taste.
60.Intercalary meristem is present at the base of the leaves or internodes on twigs.
61.Plants that do not have a differentiated plant body belong to the group Thallophyta.
62.Asexual reproduction differs from sexual reproduction in that in asexual reproduction the new organisms are genetically identical to the parent.
63.The main cause of rancidity in foods is the oxidation of fats and oil.
64.The girth of the stem or root in plants increases due to Lateral meristem.
65.In plants, the carbohydrates which are NOT used immediately are stored in the form of starch.
66.The process of taking up a permanent shape, size and function to form a permanent tissue is called differentiation.
67.The embryo gets nutrition from the motherís blood with the help of a special tissue called Placenta.
68.Plants bend towards light due to the diffusion of the auxin  hormoneon the other side of the shoot.
69.Collenchyma tissues are the cells living, elongated and irregularly thickened at the corners.
70.Centromere the name of the point at which the chromatids are attached in a chromosome.
71.Hydra reproduces by Budding.
72.Metaphase is the state the stage of mitosis during which the chromosomes of a dividing cell lies at the equatorial plate.
73. Fore-brain  is the main thinking part of the human brain.
74.In sexual reproduction a parent contributes Half of their genes.
75.Implantation is the process of attachment of zygote to the lining of a uterus.
76.Glucose, Water and Oxygen  are the products formed during photosynthesis.
77.Some of the energy derived from the food we eat is stored in the form of Glycogen.
78.Involuntary actions in human beings such as blood pressure, salivation and vomiting are controlled by the Medulla.
79.A fungal cell wall is made of chitin.
80.Antacid type of medicine is used to treat indigestion.
81.Phytohormones are substances used for photosynthesis.
82.Meristem  plant tissues is capable of cell division.
83.Plasma component of the blood transports food, carbondioxide and nitrogenous waste.
84.The female reproductive part of a flower is called carpel.
85.The motile germ cell is called a/an male gamete.
86.Vitamin C, whose deficiency causes excessive bleeding.
87.The stamen and pistil essential organs in a flower for reproduction.
88.Amphibian plants are placed in Bryophyta group.
89.Sclerenchma a permanent tissue makes a plant hard and stiff.
90.In a plant, ovule is converted into seed.
91.Growth hormones function sometimes as growth promotors and sometimes as growth inhibitors.
92.The human body works with in the pH range of 7.0 to 7.8.
93.Arteries carries blood that contain oxygen.
94.