1.Uttar Pradesh share borders with 9 different states. Neighbouring States of Uttar Pradesh – Uttarakhand and Himachal Pradesh in northwest, Delhi, Haryana and 
    Rajasthan in west, Madhya Pradesh in south, Chhattisgarh in southeast, Bihar and Jharkhand in east.
2.Sikkim, West Bengal and Arunachal Pradesh. Countries by which Sikkim shares international boundary – Bhutan in east, China in north and 
   Nepal in west. Countries by which West Bengal shares international boundary – Bangladesh in east, Nepal in north and Bhutan in northeast.
3.There are 7 Countries that india share its border (Mayanmar,Bangladesh,Bhutan,Nepal,China,Afganistan,pakistan).
     With Bangladesh India share longest border. Smallest border with Afganistan. Jammu and Kasmir state share longest boundary with china.
4.Gujarat has the longest mainland coastline in India. The total length of India's coastline is 7516.6 kilometers.The Arabian Sea gives the state of Gujarat its extensive coastline.
   2nd is Andra Pradesh. 3rd is mumbai.
5.India's 5 states that share borders with Bangladesh are: Assam, West Bengal, Mizoram, Meghalaya and Tripura.
6.Eastern ghats and Western ghats meet at the Nilgiri hills in Tamilnadu.
7.States with Highest Forest Madhya pradesh. Lowest is Haryana.
8.Uttar Pradesh is the most populous state and Sikkim is the least populous state in India. 
9.The Ruins of the Vijay Nagar empire exist in Hampi.
10.Desert adjoining the thar desert in Pakistan is known as Cholistan.

11.Continent Size wise- Asia(48 country)--     Asia is the largest continent. It covers about onethird of the total land area of the earth. The continent lies in the Eastern Hemisphere. 
                                                                    The Tropic of Cancer passes through this continent. Asia is separated from Europe by the Ural mountains.
		    Africa(54 country)--  It is the only continent through which the Tropic of Cancer, the Equator and the Tropic of Capricorn pass.
                                                                    The Equator or 0 degree latitude runs almost through the middle of the continent.The Sahara Desert, the world’s largest hot desert,
                                                                    is located in Africa. The continent is bound on all sides by oceans and seas. world’s longest river the Nile, flows through Africa.
                        North America(23 country)--   It is linked to South America by a very narrow strip of land called the Isthmus of Panama.Three oceans surround this continent.
                                    South America(12 country)--The Andes, world’s longest mountain range, runs through its length from north to south. It has the world’s largest river, 
                                                                                 the Amazon. 
                                    Antartica(12 country)-- The South Pole lies almost at the centre of this continent. India also has research stations there. These are named
                                                                        as Maitri and Dakshin Gangotri.
                                   Europe(51 country)--The continent lies to the west of Asia. The Arctic Circle passes through it. It is bound by water bodies on three sides. Alps mountain range.
                                   Australia (3)-- It is surrounded on all sides by the oceans and seas. It is called an island continent.

12.Ocean Size wise- Pacific Ocean, Atlantic Ocean, Indian Ocean, Antartic Ocean (also known as Southern Ocean),Artic Ocean.
13.Pacific Ocean- Ring of fire because it has many volcano- Triangle in shape- Found both east and west side of world.The Pacific Ocean is almost circular in shape also.
                            Mauna Kea (Hawaii) in the Pacific Ocean is an undersea mountain. It is higher than Mount Everest being 10,205 metres high.
     Atlantic Ocean is shaped as Letter "S".
     Indian   Ocean is shaped as Letter "M".
     Antartic Ocean is present in the south of the world so it is also known as Southern Ocean.
     Artic Ocean is the smallest present in the North side of world in Artic Region.
14.The atmosphere extends up to a height of about 1,600 kilometres.
         The troposphere--
         The stratosphere-- 
         The mesosphere--
         The thermosphere--
         The exosphere--
15. Increase in the amount of CO2  leads to increase in global temperatures. This is termed as global warming.
16. Volcanic mountains are formed due to volcanic activity. Mt.Kilimanjaro in Africa and Mt.Fujiyama in Japan are examples of such mountains.
17.Russia is the largest country.World smallest country is Vatican, also known as holly sea.
18.Shahara Desert (World largest desert) in North Africa.
19.Sumtra, Bali and Java very famous island of Indonesia. These island are also known as "Archipelago".
20.Coldest desert of india- Ladakh.
21.World largest island is Greenland.
22.Lake superior largest fresh water lake of world.
23.Narmada river is orignated at Amarkantak.
24.Gulf stream is the warm ocean current.
25. The Deccan plateau in India is one of the oldest plateaus.The Tibet plateau is the highest plateau in the world with a height of 4,000 to 6,000 metres above the mean sea level.
26.Regur soil is best suited for cotton.
27.Jammu and kasmir has the largest waste land area.
28.Panchvati is situated in Maharashtra.
29.Sorrow of china Wang Ho.
30.Aral sea is a land locked sea.
31.African plateau is famous for gold and diamond mining.
32. In India huge reserves of iron, coal and manganese are found in the Chhotanagpur plateau.
33.Tista River Dispute between India and Bangladesh. Tista flows from Assam.
34.There are 195 countries in the world today. This total comprises 193 countries that are member states of the United Nations and 2 countries that are non-member 
     observer states: the Holy See and the State of Palestine.
35. In India too, the Indo-Gangetic plains are the most densely populated regions of the country.Because of fertile soils, the land is highly productive for cultivation.
36.Oldest mountain range- Aravali.
37.Coldest and largest desert of earth- Antartica.
38.Gulf of Kachchh and Gulf of Khambhat- Gujrat
39.Nile River(longest river of world) flows through Africa,Egypt. 
40.Asia Largest River is Yangtze River of china. Huang He river of china is also known as Yellow river.
41.India is located in the northern hemisphere. The Tropic of Cancer (23°30'N) passes almost halfway through the country. 
42.Indira Point the Southernmost Point of India
43.The western coastal states are: Gujarat, Maharashtra, Goa, Karnataka and Kerala.
44.The eastern coastal states are: Tamil Nadu, Andhra Pradesh, Orissa and West Bengal
45.The largest herbarium in India is Indian Botanical Garden, Kolkata. It consists of 1000000 number of specimens.
46.The transfer of minerals from topsoil to subsoil through soil-water is called leaching.
47.Molten rock below the surface of the earth is called Magma.
48.Marina Beach in Chennai is the longest natural beach in India.
49.Rainfall caused by intense evaporation in equatorial areas is called Conventional rainfall.
50.The Ten Degree Channel is a channel that separates the Andaman and Nicobar in the Bay of Bengal.
51.Ghatampur Thermal Power Station is an upcoming coal-based thermal power plant located in Ghatampur in Kanpur district, Uttar Pradesh.
52.Dakshin Gangotri was the first scientific base station of India situated in Antarctica, part of the Indian Antarctic Program. It is an unmanned station. 
     Dakshin Gangotri was built in 1983 but was buried in ice and abandoned around 1991.
53. Delta is is the triangular landmass that forms at its mouth when a river splits into several branches just before entering the sea.
54.Sunda Trench lies in Indian Ocean.
55.As we proceed from the equator to poles, the daily range of temperature tends to decrease.
56.Narmada river rivers flows into the Arabian Sea.
57.Sindh is a tributary river of Yamuna.
58.Amravati dam is in Tamil Nadu.
59.Russia is the largest and richest diamond resources producer and exporter country in the world.
60.Kaveri river flow through karnataka and Tamil Nadu.
61.Konkan coast is stretched from Goa to Mumbai.
62.East- Coromandal coast.
63.West- Malabar coast
64.Gandhi memorial museum is located in Madurai Tamil Nadu.
65.Rajiv Gandhi Thermal power plant is located in Haryana.
66.The Shipping Corporation of India Limited was formed in 1950.
67.‘Nam om’ and ‘Mekong’ are the chief rivers of china.
68.Bass strait seperate Australia and Tasmania.
69.Ursa major saptarishi.Ursa Minor, also known as the Little Bear, is a constellation in the Northern Sky.
70.Tungabhadra River is the largest Tributaries of Krishna River. Bhima is the longest Tributaries of Krishna.Nagarjuna Sagar dam is located on Krishna river.
71.Trans Himalayan - Karakoram, Laddakh, Jaskar,Pir panjal, Kailash.
                            Shiwalik Range is in West in Jammu and Kasmir.
72.Eastern mountain- Dafla, Abor, Miri, Mishmi 
73.Bangladesh is known as East Bengal.
74.Word West added to it after the Partition of Bengal in 1905 and in 1947 again partition took place in which West Bengal became a state in India and 
     East Bengal as a separate nation as Bangladesh.
75.Italy’s Mount Etna, Europe’s biggest live volcano.
76.Barmuda Triangle is in West Indies.
77.The Bab-el-Mandeb, meaning "Gate of Tears" in Arabic, is a strait between Yemen on the Arabian Peninsula, Djibouti and Eritrea, north of Somalia, in the Horn of Africa, 
      and connecting the Red Sea to the Guardafui Channel and Gulf of Aden. It is sometimes called the Mandab Strait in the English language.
78.Queen of hill-Nilgiri
79.Nanda Devi mountain - Uttrakhand.
80. Seas in the World
          Eastern part- Chuckchi sea- Bearing sea (Between Russia and Alaska), sea of Okhotsk, Sea of Japan, Yellow Sea- East China sea- South China Sea (China),
                              The deepest blue hole in the world at 300.89 meters (987 feet) deep is in the South China Sea and is named the Dragon Hole, or Longdong.
                              Philippine sea (largest sea of the world), Java sea, Coral sea and Tasman sea (Australia),
                              Andaman sea, Lakshadweep sea, Arabian Sea, Red Sea (Africa and Arabian Peninsula)
                              Meditarranean sea, Tyrrhenian sea,Adriatic sea, Aegean sea,Black sea, Azov sea (Therse all are below Europe country or we can say middle east)
                              White sea, Norwegean sea, Baltic sea--least salinity sea of the world,North sea (Above Europe)
                              
        Western Part- Sargasso sea,Caribbian sea,Labrador sea (America)
                             Beaufort Sea (Above alaska)
81. Bay- Bay is a water body surrounded partially by land.
82.Gulf is a large Bay.
83. Gulfs in the world
                  Gulf of Carpenteria in Australia, Great Australian Bight gulf below Australia, Gulf of Thailand in Thailand
                  Bay of Bengal is the largest bay in the world. Palk street between India and sri Lanka and also Gulf of Mannar.
                  Persian Gulf also known as Arabian Gulf(near Iran as Iran earlier known as Persia),Gulf of Oman,Gulf of Aden.
                  Bay of Biscay( province of spain),Gulf of Bothnia (in Europe)
                  Gulf of Maxico (largest Gulf of the world),Gulf of California 
                  Gulf of Guinea (Africa)
                  Hudson Bay,Baffin Bay(North America)
84.Lakes in the world
           In Asia-  Caspian Sea (largest lake in the world), Aral sea, Balkash lake, Baikal lake (deepest lake in the world,oldest frsesh water),Dead sea,Lake Ladoga (all in Europe)
                         Lake Victoria,Lake malavi, Lake Tanganyika (Africa)
                         Lake Eyre (largest lake of Australia)
         South America-  Lake Titicaca (highest lake of the world)
         North America- Lake Superior (largest fresh water lake),Lake Michigan,Lake Huron, Lake Erie, Lake Ontario

85.Strait in the world
              Bering strait devide Russia and Alaska 
              Tartary strait 
              Malacca Strait (longest strait of the world)- joins Andaman Sea and South China sea and divides Malasia and Indonesia
              Torres Strait (obove Australia- It devide Australia and Papua New Guinea Island), Bass Strait (divide australia and Tasmania)
              Cook strait in Newzeland.
              Palk street between India and sri Lanka
              Gibraltar strait 
              Mozambique Channel devide Africa and Madagascar.
              Suez Canal a man made strait that devide Africa and Asia
              Bosphorous strait 
              English channel - it devide UK or England and joins France
              Panama Canal- Devide North America and South America
              The Strait of Hormuz is a strait between the Persian Gulf and the Gulf of Oman. It provides the only sea passage from the Persian Gulf to the open ocean 
                    and is one of the world's most strategically important choke points.
86.According to 2001 Cencus Kerla has "Sex Ratio" more than 1000.
87.Highest peak in south India is Anaimudi.
88.Udaigiri rock cut caves are located at Orissa.
89.Headquater of south western Railway is located in Hubli.
90.Monsoon is caused by seasonal reversal of wind.
91.Mountain Pass Nathu-la is located in Sikkim.
92.Headquater of North eastern railway is located at Gorakhpur.
93.On 21 June sun is vertically overhead the Tropic of cancer.
94.Evergreen forest are found in Equitorial region.
95.Equitorial radius of the earth is 6400km.
96.Rail coach factory is located at Kapurthala.
97."Garden city of india" is Banglore.
98.Sirohi district of Rajasthan have the highest peak of Aravalli Range.
99.'Masala park" is related to Jodhpur city of Rajasthan.
100.Time difference between Indian standard time and Greenwich Meridian time is 5:30 hour.
101.Sex ratio is highest in kerla.
102.International date line 180 degree East Longitude.
103.Krishna-Godavari delta is known as Rice bowl of India.
104.River Nile flows through Egypt.
105.Tripura is bounded by Bangladesh on three side.
106.In Mayanmar, Arakan Yorna an extention of Himalayan range situated.
107.University of culcutta is the oldest university established in Modern india.
108.Bhopal gas disaster 1984 was caused due to chemical accident.
109.Largest living bird ostrich.
110.Kanchenjunga mountain peak is in the border of Nepal.
111.Headquater of coir board located in Cochin.
112.Hawa Mahal is situated in Jaipur.
113.Gobi desert is situated in Mangolia.
114.Madurai is famous for its world famous Meenakshi Temple.
115.Dakshin Gangotri is a Indian Research station in Antartica.
116.In 2006 Union Territory of Pondicherry was changed to Puducherry.
117.Black soil is known as Regur soil.
118.Nilgiri hills is the original habitat of 'Toda tribe'.
119.Rama Setu is located in Palk strait.
120.The Great indian desert is also known as Thar desert.
121.There are three parallel ranges of Himalaya.
122.Tallest peak of Aravalli range is called "Guru shikhar'.
123.Mass of earth is 6 x 10 pow 24 kg.
124.Hill station of chail is in Himachal pradesh.
125.India and pakistan international boundary- Radcliffe Line drawn by Sir Cyril radcliff in 1947. LOC( Line of control) military control line.
126.India and china border international boundary- McMohan Line.Also named as LAC.
127.India srilanka- palk strait
128.Boundary between Pakistan and Gujrat state of india- 24 parallel
129.International border between pakistan and afganistan- Durand line
130.North Vietnam and south vietnam- 17 parallel
131.North korea and south korea- 38 parallel.
132.America and Canada- 49 parallel.
133.India Bangladesh-Purbachal (Operating zero line)
134.India and Mayanmar- Indo-Burma barrier
135.Rajasthan is the largest state and Goa is the smallest state in terms of area.
136.The rivers Narmada and Tapi flow through Vindhyas and the Satpuras ranges.These are west-flowing rivers that drain into the Arabian Sea.
137.To the West of the Western Ghats and the East of Eastern Ghats lie the Coastal plains.
138.There are a number of east flowing rivers. The rivers Mahanadi, Godavari, Krishna and Kaveri drain into the Bay of Bengal.
139.Tropical Rain Forest or Evergreen Forest-Important trees found in these forests are mahogany, ebony and rosewood. Andaman and Nicobar Islands, 
                                                                      parts of North-Eastern states and a narrow strip of the Western slope of the Western Ghats are home of these forests.
140.Tropical decidous forest or Monsoon Forest- Important trees of these forests are sal, teak, peepal, neem and shisham. They are found in Madhya Pradesh, 
                                                                           Uttar Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand, Chhattisgarh, Odisha, and in parts of Maharashtra.
141.Thorney Bushes- This type of vegetation is found in dry areas of the country. The leaves are in the form of spines to reduce the loss of water. Cactus, khair, babool, 
                                 keekar are important and are found in the states of Rajasthan, Punjab, Haryana, Eastern slopes of Western Ghats and Gujarat.
142.Mountain Forest or coniferous trees- Trees are conical in shape.
143.Mangrove Forest- These forests can survive in saline water.They are found mainly in Sunderbans in West Bengal and in the Andaman and Nicobar Islands.
                                   Sundari is a well-known species of trees in mangrove forests after which Sunderbans have been named.
144.
         
                              
                              
