1.Arthur Tansley define the concept of ecosystem.
2.Income of all the resident of a country called Total Income.
3.Government printed the one rupee note on 30 November 1917.One rupee note is printed by the Ministry of Finance not by the RBI.
4.RBI prints the notes of all denomination except 1 rupee note because it is printed by the Ministry of Finance. Except one rupee note every currency note of India has the 
    declaration of the RBI governor; “I Promise to pay the bearer sum of 100 Rupees”. 
5.The Reserve Bank of India was established on April 1, 1935 under the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934. Its headquarter is in Mumbai.
6.Section 22 of the Reserve Bank of India Act, 1934; gives the right to Reserve Bank to issue currency notes of the country. Before 1935, 
   the Government of India had the responsibility of printing the currency notes.
7.It is worth to mention that one rupee note is signed by the Finance Secretary of India, while the other currency notes are signed by the Governor of the Reserve Bank of India.
8.Printing of currency notes in India is done on the basis of Minimum Reserve System (MRS).This system is applicable in India since 1957.According to this system, 
    the Reserve Bank of India has to maintain assets of at least 200 crore rupees all the times. Out of this 200 crore, the 115 cr rupee should in the form of Gold and rest 85 cr. 
    should be in the form of foreign currency.After holding this much assets, the RBI can print any number of currency notes as per the requirement of the economy. 
    Although it has to take prior permission from the government.
9.Security Printing and Minting Corporation of India Limited (SPMCIL) is a Miniratna Category-I CPSE, and wholly owned Schedule ‘A’ Company of Government of India,
   is engaged in the manufacturing of security papers, minting of coins, printing of bank notes, non-judicial stamp papers, postage stamps and travel documents, etc.
10.When bank take loan from RBI then the interest rate is called Repo Rate.
11.When Bank deposit money in RBI then interest rate is called Reverse Repo Rate. RRR is 25 bps lower than Repo rate.
12.RuPay card scheme was conceived and launched by National Payments Corporation of India (NPCI) on 26 March 2012. 
     It was created to fulfil the Reserve Bank of India's (RBI) vision to have a domestic, open and multilateral system of payments
13.In india Goverment bond are referred as G-sec (Goverment security) in India. Interest on the bond which a investor get is bond yield.
14.Physical capital- The variety of inputs required at every stage during production.
15.Fixed capital- Tools, machines, buildings can be used in production over many years.
16.Raw materials and money in hand are called working capital.
17.Human capital- You will need knowledge and enterprise to be able to put together land, labour and physical capital and produce an output either to use yourself or to sell in the
    market.
18.The Green Revolution in the late 1960s introduced the Indian farmer to cultivation of wheat and rice using high yielding varieties (HYVs) of seeds. 
19.Mahatma Gandhi National Rural Employment Guarantee Act, 2005 aims to provide 100 days of wage employment to every household.
20.Prime Minister Rozgar Yozana (PMRY) is another scheme which was started in 1993.
21.Rural Employment Generation Programme (REGP) was launched in 1995. 
22.Swarnajayanti Gram Swarozgar Yojana (SGSY) was launched in 1999. The programme aims at bringing the assisted poor families above the poverty line by
     organising them into self help groups through a mix of bank credit and government subsidy. 
23.Pradhan Mantri Gramodaya Yozana (PMGY) launched in 2000, additional central assistance is given to states for basic services such as primary health, primary
    education, rural shelter, rural drinking water and rural electrification.
24.