RIVERS OF INDIA
-------------------------

 Rivers are divided into two parts Himalayan and Peninsular rivers.

 Three main Himalayan Rivers mainly are  Indus, Ganga and Brahmaputra.

  Indus river source is near Mansarovar in Kailash Range in Tibet China. It flow through tibet and enters india through jammu and kasmir. It enter into pakistan and joins at 
    Arabian sea at karachi. 
 Tributaries of Indus River - Chenab river source from Baralacha Pass Himachal Pradesh and enter into jammu kasmir then enter in pakistan and joins methankot at Indus.
                                 The river Jhelum rises from a spring at Verinag situated at the foot of the Pir Panjal range in the south-eastern part of the valley of Kashmir. 
                                      It flows through Srinagar and the Wular Lake before entering Pakistan from Kashmir through a deep narrow gorge.
                                The Ravi River originates in the Himalayas in the Multhan tehsil of Kangra district of Himachal Pradesh, India.It again goes to punjab of india and then enter
                                       into pakistan Lahore. So Lahore is situated on the bank of river Ravi.
                                The Sutlej River is situated on the north of the Vindhya Mountain Range, to the south of the Hindu Kush division of the Himalayan Mountain Ranges and to 
                                       the east of the Central Sulaiman range in Pakistan. There are various hydroelectric power and irrigation projects over the river like the Kol Dam, 
                                       Bhakra Nangal Dam (largest dam of India located ), Baspa Hydroelectric Power Project, and Nathpa Jhakri Project.
                                The Beas River flows from a height of 14,308 ft at Rohtang Pass, Himachal Pradesh, from where it flows through the Kullu valley towards south.
                                       This beas river is the only river which completely flows in india and meet to Satluj in Punjab.
  
 As all this 5 river meet at a point in pakistan known as "panjnad".

  Two source of stream of Ganga are Bhagirathi river ( origin from Gangotri Glacier) and Alaknanda river(origin Satopanth Glacier) of Uttrakhand meet at Devpryag in himachal and 
   form "Ganga".Highest dam in India- Tehri dam build on Bhagirathi River. Ganga enters the plain in Haridwar. 
      Ganga flows through Uttrakhand, Uttar pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand (Sahebganj), West Bengal and Enter into Bangladesh river which is "Padma" distributary of ganges and 
           finally join Bay of Bengal. Ganga is the longest river of india.
     Tributary of Ganga--
         Ganga Left Bank Tributary- Ramganga river (have ramganga dam) is a tributary of the river Ganga, originating in Uttarakhand state and meet ganga in UP.
                                                   Gomti River is a tributary of the river Ganga, origin from Northern UP and flows through " capital city Lucknow" and meet at Varanasi.
                                             Ghagra River (longest river of Nepal, largest tributary by volume) is a tributary of the river Ganga, flows through Tibet and enter into Nepal then UP.
                                             Gandak River,is a tributary of the river Ganga, also called Narayani River, river in central Nepal and northern India. It is formed by the union of the 
                                                         Kali and Trisuli rivers, which rise in the Great Himalaya Range in Nepal and enter into Bihar Sonepur.
                                             Kosi River is a tributary of the river Ganga source Nepal, and meet ganga river in Bihar,Bhagalpur. The Kosi River is known as the "Sorrow of Bihar".
                                             Mahananda River is a tributary of the river Ganga source Darjelling, West Bengal and enter into Bangladesh to join Padma.
   
       Ganga Right Bank Tributary-- Yamuna, source Yamunotri Glacier, in Uttrakhand, on its way it sometime act as a boundary of uttrakhand and himachal pradesh,
                                          then act as boundary between Haryana and UP, and then pass through New Delhi and flows parallelly to ganga and joins ganga at Allahabad, UP. 
                                          
           Tributary of Yamuna
                 (Left bank tributary)-- Chambal River,The Sindh River, The Betwa or Betravati all from Madhya Pradesh to join the Yamuna River in Uttar Pradesh.
                 (Right bank tributary)--Son River source is Amarkantak Plateaue, Chattisgarh then Madhya pradesh then UP then Jharkhand and Bihar and Joint Ganga near Patna.

              Ganga divided into two parts when enter into the West Bengal one goes to Bangladesh and another remain in west bengal named as "Hoogly River". Kolkata is situated
                   on the bank of river Hoogle.
 
             Damodar River "Sorrow of Bengal" orignate from Chotanagpur plateau, flows through jharkhand and enter into west bengal joins with hoogly. 
                                      
    The Brahmaputra River,originates on the Angsi Glacier located on the northern side of the Himalayas in Burang County of Tibet (in Tibet Brahamaputra is known as Tsangpo) . 
        when it enter India it is known as Dihang or Siang Flows through china  and enter into Arunachal pradesh, then a tributary Lohit river attached Tsangpo it become 
        Brahamaputra on the way and a tributary river Testa orignates from Sikkim flows through west Bengal and joins with Brahamaputra on the way again then it is called 
        as "jamuna" again on the way a tributary Meghna join Jamuna and then enters the Bangladesh where it joins the padma and finally enter into Bay of Bengal.

        A tributary Origins in Eastern Tibet and flows into Arunachal Pradesh , The Dhola–Sadiya Bridge, also referred to as the Bhupen Hazarika Setu as the longest Bridge of India
          on Lohit River which connect Brahamaputra. Dhansiri a tributary of brahmaputra flows through Assam. Subalsiri a tributary of brahmaputra flows through Tibet and meet at
          the mouth of Dhansiri. Majhuli River Island in Assam is the world's largest river island. Kameng River of Arunachal pradesh also a tributary of brahmaputra.
            
        Manas River (longest river of Bhutan) Orignate from Tibet and Enter into Bhutan and joins Brahamaputra in Assam.
  
    Ganga and Brahmaputra makes the largest delata of the world know as "Sundervan Delta, or Ganga and Brahmaputra Delta or Bengal Delta".
    The Brahmaputra River is known as the "Red Sea of India".

    Subarnarekha River act as a border between Jharkhand and West Bengal.

    
   PENINSULAR RIVERS

     Sources of peninsular river Aravali Range,Vindhya Satpura range,Western Ghats,Eastern Ghats and Pleatues.

          Godavari River--- longest river in Peninsular area.Second largest river of india after ganga.It is also called the Dakshin Ganga.
               Godavari orignates at Trayambakeshwar  Nasik in Maharashtra. Flows through maharashtra enters Telangana. SRSP (Shree Ram Sagar Project at Telangana) and
                enters into Andra Pradesh 
                Right Bank Tributary of Gadavari- Manjeera is the longest tributary of Godavari.
                                                                 Maneru is also a tributary of Godavari.

         Narmada River-- Orignate from Maharashtra Amarkantak, having a dam "Indira Sagar Dam" then flows through Gujrat having "Sardar Sarovar Dam"

          Mahanani River-- Orignates at Chattisgarh, and enters Orrisa having Hirakund Dam on Mahanadi.
                                       Tapti River tributary of Mahanadi River.

                    Sabarmati River orignate at Aravalli Range. Luni River Orignate at Aravalli Range and pass through Thar Desert and Enter into Runn of Kuchh Gujrat. Only river
                             that does't join any sea.

         Krishna River-- Its source is mahabaleshwar, Maharashtra flows through Karnataka which have dam on Krishna which is Almetti Dam and then Krishna enters Telangana
                   In Telangana on Krishna we have Nagarjuna Sagar Project.
                          Bhima is the longest tributary of Krishna River.
                          TungaBhadra tributary of Krishna flows through Karnataka having a Dam named TungaBadhra dam.
                           Mussi a tributary of Krishna river orignates from Telangana.

        Penna River -- Orignates at Nandi Hills of Karnataka.
                                   Chitrawati Tributary of Penna River.

          Kaveri River-- Orignates from Karnataka having a dam on Kaveri named "Krishna Sagar Raja Dam" and then enters Tamil Nadu having onother dam.
                                 Tributary of Kaveri- Hemawati river,Laksman Tirtha River,Kabini River,Akawati River,Bhawani River,Amarawati River orignates at Annamalai Hills

        
                                

IMPORTANT DAM AND RIVER
-------------------------------------------

1.Longest dam in the world- Hirakund dam (Orissa) on Mahanadi River.
2.Longest dam in India- Hirakund dam (Orissa)
3.Highest dam in India- Tehri dam (Uttarakhand) on Bhagirathi River.
4.Highest straight gravity Dam in India- Bhakra dam
5.Andhra Pradesh -Polavaram Project-Godavari River
6.Arunachal Pradesh -Ranganadi Dam-Ranganadi River, a tributary of the Brahmaputra River
7.Gujarat-Sardar Sarovar Dam-Narmada River
8.Himachal Pradesh -Bhakra Dam-Satluj River,Chamera Dam -Ravi River,Pong Dam-Beas
9.Jammu & Kasmir- Baglihar Dam,Salar Dam -Chenab River, Uri dam on Jhelum, Kishenganga Dam on KISHANGANGA.
10.Jharkhand-Panchet Dam on Damodar River,Maithon Dam on Barakar River, 
11.Karnataka- Tungabhadra Dam on Tungabhadra River
12.Kerla- Idukki Dam on Periyar River
13.Punjab- Ranjit Sagar Dam on Ravi River, Shahpurkhandi dam (national project) on river Ravi in punjab.
14.Rajasthan-Rana Pratap Sagar Dam on Chambal.
15.Mekedatu dam on the Cauvery river,Karnataka.(Under construction).
16.Nagarjuna Sagar Dam-Krishna, Telangana
17.Bhupen Hazarika Dam connect Assam to Arunachal Pradesh
18.Koldam project on Satluj river.
19.River sardar Sarovar dam is build in Narmada river Gujrat
20.Pantna is located on the bank of river ganga.
21. Largest Dam of India is Bhakra Nangal Dam build on river Satlej.
22.World highest dam- Rogun dam.
23.Almatti Dam is locted in Karnataka.