1.ASAT missile - Anti Satellite missile (mission Shakti 27 march 2019- fourth country in the world)
2.The ASAT missile hit an imaging satellite Microsat-R
3.On march 27 india shot a live satellite in the lower earth orbit of 300km using a modified interceptor of the Ballistic Missile Defence
4.India's carbon dioxide emisssion up 5% ( reported by International Energy Agency)
5. On 1 st January 2019, the Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) launched a new platform named “Samwad with Students” (SwS) as part of the enhanced outreach 
    programme and to engage youngsters across India to capture their scientific temperament in Bengaluru.

6.On January 13, 2019, Kerala chief minister Pinarayi Vijayan launched country’s largest startup ecosystem, integrated startup complex measuring 1.8 lakh sq ft. under 
   the Kerala Startup Mission (KSUM), at the Technology Innovation Zone (TIZ), in Kochi, Kerala.
7.Dr K Sivan, Chairman, Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) announced at a ceremony organized by St Joseph’s College, Trichy, Tamilnadu which is 
   celebrating its 175 anniversary that the Union Government has allocated 10,900 crore rupees for the development of 40 satellite launch vehicles in the next four years.

8.National Level initiatives launched by DST and Prasar Bharti On January 15, 2019, Union Science & Technology Minister, Dr. Harsh Vardhan inaugurated 2 national 
   level initiatives DD Science and India Science in the field of Science and Communications.These initiatives are the first step in creating a national science.

9.At  a  time  when  water  scarcity pervades many urban centres, it is important to ensure that water being transported through pipes is not lost through leakages. 
   In an attempt to address this issue, re­searchers  from  IIT  Madras  have developed a robot to check pipe­lines  for  leaks  and  other  faults. Named Endobot,
   this robot is to be marketed by an IIT Madras in­cubated  startup,  Solinas  Integri­ty, founded by the researchers. 

10.PM Narendra Modi inaugurated supercomputer ‘Param Shivay’ at IIT-BHU.The supercomputer of 833 teraflop capacity built at the cost of Rs 32.5 crore.

11.Ministry of External Affairs and Department of Atomic Energy (DAE) organised Parmanu Tech 2019 in New Delhi to discuss the issues related to Nuclear Energy 
    and Radiation Technologies.

12.Indian Airforce has induced the first batch of four chinnok ch-47f heavy lift helicopter on 25-03-2019

13.Kerala Chief Minister, Pinarayi Vijayan, inaugurated India’s first Humanoid Police Robot named KP-BOT, ranked as Sub-Inspector (SI), at the Police Headquarters 
    in Thiruvananthapuram,Kerala

14.UNESCO has named the year 2019 as The International Year of the Periodic Table of Chemical Elements in Paris

15.DSRV- deep submerge rescue vehicle

16.Chandrayaan­2 project director M. Vanitha.

17.Recently, Microsoft has released its own fully managed Azure Blockchain Service. This will help in simplifying the formation, management and governance of the 
     businesses so that they can pay attention to workflow logic and application development. Businesses can develop their applications on this new cloud-based platform.

18.

