1.Unit of pressure is pascal.
2.Amalgam is a mixture of metal and Amalgum.
3.Under sea earthquakes cause Tsunami.
4.Human being are conductor of elctricity. So electrician use rubber globes ( insulator).
5.Frog breathes through the skin.
6.Silver is the highest conductor of elctricity.
7.Metal which chemically behave both as metal and non-metal is known as metalloids.
8.Lightest metal- Lithium
9.Anemometer for measuring the speed of wind. 
   Salinity of solution- Salinometer
   Measure sound under water- Hydrophone
   Rate of flow of liquid- Venturimeter
   Measure Atmoshpheric humidity- Hygrometer
   Measure electric current of low magnitude- Galvanometer
   Measure the intensity of sound- Audiometer
   Measure magnetic flux- Fluxmeter
   Power of electric circuit- Wattmeter
   Measure the curvature of surface- Spherometer
   Intensity of earthquakes- Seismograpgh or Richter Scale
   Measure the illumination and intensity of two light source- Photometer
   Vibration of heart and lungs- Stethoscope
    Detect the presence of electric charge- Electroscope
    Viscocity of liquid- Viscometer
    Measure the density- Pycnometer
    Measure humidity- Sling psychrometer
    Measure Temprature- Bolometer, thermometer  but for huge heat Pyrometer
    Compare intensity of colour colorimeter
    Regulate the temprature at a perticular point- Thermostat
    To view rapidly moving object- Stroboscope
    Measure inner and outer diameter of bodies- Callipers
    Determine boiling point of liquid- Hysometer
    Compairing electromotive force of cell- Potentiometer
    Magnified view of small object- Microscope
    Measure quantity of heat- Coloriemeter
    Measure horizontal and vertical angle- Theodolite
    Barametre is used to measure Atmospheric pressure.
    Lactometers, which are used to determine the purity of a sample of milk
    Hydrometers used for determining density of liquids.

10.ECG-Electro cardio Graph
11.Lemon have Vitamin-C
12.Ph value of blood 7.4
13.Heaviest metal - Osmium, naturally-Plutonium.
14.Evolution Theory was given by Charled Darwin.
15.Desalination technology?   To convert salt water into freshwater, the most prevalent technology in the world is reverse osmosis (RO). 
    A plant pumps in salty or brackish water, filters separate the salt from the water, and the salty water is returned to the sea. Fresh water is sent to households.
   The city of Chennai already uses desalinated water.
16.Plant Parts --- Shoot system (plant upper part), Root System (Plant Lower part)
                          Shot system(Flower,Fruit,stem,leaf,Bud,Node,Inter node)  Root system(Primary root, secondary root)
17.Seeds of musturd plant give us oil.
18.Bees collect nectar (sweet juices) from flowers, convert it into honey.
19.Animal which eat plant is called herbivores. Animal which eat animal are carnivores. Animal which eat both animal and plant are omnivores.
20.The major nutrients in our food are named carbohydrates, proteins, fats, vitamins and minerals. In addition, food contains dietary fibres and water which are also
     needed by our body.
21.Fats and carbohydrates are also called ‘energy giving foods’ .
22.Carbohydrates mainly provide energy to our body. Fats also give us energy. In fact, fats give much more energy as compared to the same amount of carbohydrates.
23.Vitamin A keeps our skin and eyes healthy.
24.Vitamin C helps body to fight against many diseases.
25.Vitamin D helps our body to use calcium for bones and teeth.
26.Proteins are often called ‘body building foods’.
27.Besides these nutrients, our body needs dietary fibres and water. Dietary fibres are also known as roughage. Roughage is mainly provided by plant 
    products in our foods. Whole grains and pulses, potatoes, fresh fruits and vegetables are main sources of roughage. 
28.Vitamin C gets easily destroyed by heat during cooking.
29.Diseases that occur due to lack of nutrients over a long period are called deficiency diseases.
30.Jute fibre is obtained from the stem of the jute plant. It is cultivated during the rainy season. In India, jute is mainly grown in West Bengal, Bihar and Assam.
31.Use of charkha was popularised by Mahatma Gandhi as part of the Independence movement. He encouraged people to wear clothes made of homespun yarn termed
    as khadi and shun imported cloth made in the mills of Britain. To popularise and promote khadi, the Government of India constituted a body called Khadi and
    Village Industries Commission in 1956.
32.The process of making yarn from fibres is called spinning.
33.Fabric from yarns is made by weaving and knitting.
34.The process that is used to separate grain from stalks etc. is threshing.
35.Winnowing is used to separate heavier and lighter components of a mixture by wind or by blowing air .
36.When the heavier component in a mixture settles after water is added to it, the process is called sedimentation. When the water (along with the dust) is
     removed, the process is called decantation. Like cleaning rice in home.oil and water from their mixture can be separated by this process.
37. Pebbles and stones are removed from sand by sieving.
38. Removing tea leaves while preparing tea using strainer the process is called filteration.
39. we used the process of evaporation, to separate a mixture of water and salt.
40.The process of conversion of water into its vapour is called evaporation.
41. The process of conversion of water vapour into its liquid form is called condensation.
42.If we continiously add salt in water and when no more salt can be dissolved in the amount of water we have taken. The solution is now said to be saturated. 
43.More of a substance can be dissolved in a solution by heating it.
44.Most plants can be classified into three categories: herbs, shrubs and trees.  
45.Plants with weak stems that cannot stand upright but spread on the ground are called creepers  while those that take support and climb up are called climbers
46. Leaf (The part of leaf by which it is attached to the stem is called petiole , The broad, green part of the leaf is called lamina,
               The lines on the leaf are called veins, The middle line of the leaf is called midrib,  The design made by veins in a leaf is called the leaf venation,
                If the design is net-like on both sides of midrib, the venation is reticulate  )       
47. In the leaves of grass you might have seen that the veins are parallel to one another. This is parallel venation .
48.Water comes out of leaves in the form of vapour by a process called transpiration. Plants release a lot of water into the air through this process. 
49.Leaves prepare their food in the presence of sunlight and a green coloured substance present in them. For this, they also use water and carbon dioxide. This process is
    called photosynthesis. Oxygen is given out in this process.
50.Flower Parts ( open part is called petals, petals are covered with sepals when it is a bud, middle portion is Pistil(inside pistil we have stigma,style,Ovary,
                          Stamin(inside stamin there is filament), Anthers, ).
51.The joint where our neck joins the head is a pivotal joint. It allows us to bend our head forward and backward and turn the head to our right or left.
52.The elbow has a hinge joint that allows only a back and forth movement.
53. The bones cannot move at these joints. Such joints are called fixed joints.There is a joint between the upper jaw and the rest of the head which is a fixed joint.
54.The human skeleton is composed of around 305 bones at birth. The number of bones in the skeleton changes with age. It decreases to 206 bones by adulthood 
     after some bones have fused together.
55.We see that the ribs are curiously bent. They join the chest bone and the backbone together to form a box. This is called the rib cage. 
56.There are 12 ribs on each side of chest. 
57.Backbone is made up of many small bones called vertebrae. Backbone consist of 33 vertebrae.
58.Upper part of ear has cartilage.
59.An earthworm does not have bones. It has muscles which help to extend and shorten the body.
60.The head and tail of the fish are smaller than the middle portion of the body – the body tapers at both ends. This body shape is called streamlined.
61.The plants and animals that live on land are said to live in terrestrial habitats.
62.Small changes that take place in the body of a single organism over short periods, to overcome small problems due to changes in the surroundings, are called acclimatisation.
63. A deer needs to know about the presence of predators ( animals like lion that make it their prey ) in order to run away from them and not become their prey.
64. Breathing is part of a process called respiration.
65.Changes in our surroundings that makes us respond to them, are called stimuli.
66.some plants like Mimosa, commonly known as ‘touch-me-not’, leaves close or fold when someone touches them. 
67.The process of getting rid of wastes by organisms is known as excretion.
68.Each metre (m) is divided into 100 equal divisions, called centimetre (cm). Each centimetre has ten equal divisions, called millimetre (mm).
69.Unit of length is metre.
70.Objects move along a straight line. This type of motion is called rectilinear motion.
71.Take a stone, tie a thread to it and whirl it with your hand. Observe the motion of the stone. We see that the stone moves along a circular path. 
     This type of motion is called circular motion.
72.In some cases, an object repeats its motion after some time. This type of motion is called periodic motion.
73.Objects like the sun that give out or emit light of their own are called luminous objects.
74.We all use mirrors at home. You look into the mirror and see your own face inside the mirror. What you see is a reflection of your face in the mirror.
75.Light travels in straight line.
76. The thin wire that gives off light is called the filament of the bulb.
77.Materials which allow electric current to pass through them are conductors of electricity.Insulators do not allow electric current to pass through them.
78.Human body is a conductor of electricity.
79.Switch is a simple device that is used to either break the electric circuit or to complete it.
80.Rocks which behave as magnet are natural magnet.Such rocks were given the name magnetite.Magnetite contains iron.
81.The substances having the property of attracting iron are now known as magnets. 
82.The materials which get attracted towards a magnet are magnetic – for example, iron, nickel or cobalt. The materials which are not attracted towards a magnet are non-magnetic.
83.All magnets have two poles whatever their shape may be. Usually, north (N) and south (S) poles are marked on the magnets.
84.A freely suspended magnet always aligns in N-S direction.
85.Opposite poles of two magnets attract each other whereas similar poles repel one another.
86.Component of air, which supports burning, is known as oxygen.
87.The major part of air (which does not support burning candle) is nitrogen when we cover buring candle with a glass.
88. Plants also consume oxygen for respiration, but they produce more of it than they consume. That is why we say plants produce oxygen.
89.Air in motion is called wind.Air occupies space.
90.Safai karamcharis collect the garbage in trucks and take it to a low lying open area, called a landfill.
91.In some cities and towns, municipalities provide separate dustbins for collecting two kinds of garbage. Usually one is coloured blue and the other green. 
     The blue bin is for materials that can be used again — such as plastics, metals and glass. The green bins are for collecting kitchen and other plant or animal wastes.
92.Earthworms are called farmer’s friend.
93.The Prime Minister of India launched the Swachh Bharat Mission (SBM).The aim of this mission is to create an open defecation-free India by 2 October 2019.
94.Converting plant and animal waste including that from kitchen, into manure, is called composting.
95.The method of making compost from kitchen garbage using redworms is called vermicomposting.
96.The mode of nutrition in which organisms make food themselves from simple substances is called autotrophic. Therefore, plants are called autotrophs.
97.Animals and most other organisms take in ready made food prepared by the plants. They are called heterotrophs.
98.Leaves are the food factories of plants. The synthesis of food in plants occurs in leaves.
99. Bodies of living organisms are made of tiny units called cells.
100.The cell is enclosed by a thin outer boundary, called the cell membrane. Most cells have a distinct, centrally located spherical structure called the nucleus
       The nucleus is surrounded by a jelly-like substance called cytoplasm.
101. Water and minerals present in the soil are absorbed by the roots and transported to the leaves. Carbon dioxide from air is taken in through the tiny pores present on the
          surface of the leaves. These pores are surrounded by ‘guard cells’. Such pores are called stomata.
102.The leaves have a green pigment called  chlorophyll. It helps leaves to capture the energy of the sunlight. This energy is used to synthesise (prepare)
       food from carbon dioxide and water. Since the synthesis of food occurs in the presence of sunlight, it is called photosynthesis.
103. So we find that chlorophyll, sunlight, carbon dioxide and water are necessary to carry out the process of photosynthesis.
104. Photosynthesis  is a unique process on the earth. The solar energy is captured by the leaves and stored in the plant in the form of food. Thus, sun is
       the ultimate source of energy for all living organisms.
105.During photosynthesis, chlorophyll containing cells of leaves, in the presence of sunlight, use carbon dioxide and water to synthesise carbohydrates + oxygen.
106. During photosynthesis, The carbohydrates ultimately get converted into starch. The presence of starch in leaves indicates the occurrence of photosynthesis. 
       The starch is also a carbohydrate.
107.You often see slimy, green patches in ponds or in other stagnant water bodies. These are generally formed by the growth of organisms called algae.
      Can you guess why algae are green in colour? They contain chlorophyll which gives them the green colour. Algae can also prepare their own food by photosynthesis.
108. Insect-eating plants are called insectivorous plants.
109.Usually crops require a lot of nitrogen to make proteins. After the harvest, the soil becomes deficient in nitrogen.
110.Plant need need nitrogen in a soluble form. The bacterium called Rhizobium can take atmospheric nitrogen and convert it into a soluble form.
111.The food passes in human body through a continuous canal which begins at the buccal cavity and ends at the anus.
112.The human food canal can be divided into various compartments:
       (1) the buccal cavity, (2) foodpipe or oesophagus, (3) stomach, (4) small intestine, (5) large intestine ending in the rectum and (6) the anus.
113.The process of taking food into the body is called ingestion.
114. The windpipe carries air from the nostrils to the lungs.
115.The stomach is a thick-walled bag. Its shape is like a flattened U and it is the widest part of the alimentary canal.
116.The inner lining of the stomach secretes mucous, hydrochloric acid and digestive juices.
117.The small intestine is highly coiled and is about 7.5 metres long.
118.The liver is a reddish brown gland situated in the upper part of the abdomen on the right side. It is the largest gland in the body. It secretes bile
       juice that is stored in a sac called the gall bladder. The bile plays an important role in the digestion of fats.
119.The food that remains undigested and unabsorbed enters into the large intestine.
120.The large intestine is wider and shorter than small intestine. It is about 1.5 metre in length. Its function is to absorb water and some salts from the undigested food material.
121.Cows, buffaloes and other grass-eating animals chewing continuously even when they are not eating? Actually, they quickly swallow the grass and store it in a part of 
      the stomach called rumen. Here the food get partially digest and is called cud.But later the cud returns to the mouth in small lumps and the animal chews it. 
      This process is called rumination and these animals are called ruminants.
122.Oral Rehydration Solution (ORS).
123.The grass is rich in cellulose, a type of carbohydrate.
124.Amoeba is a microscopic single-celled organism found in pond water.
125.Amoeba ingests its food with the help of its false feet or pseudopodia. The food is digested in the food vacuole.
126.The rearing of silkworms for obtaining silk is called sericulture.
127.China leads the world in silk production.
128.Silk comes from silkworms and wool is obtained from sheep, goat and yak. Hence silk and wool are animal fibres.
129.Temperature is measured by a device called thermometer.
130.The normal temperature of human body is 37°C.
131. Heat flows from a hotter object to a colder object.
132.The process by which heat is transferred from the hotter end to the colder end of an object is known as conduction.
133.From the sun the heat comes to us by another process known as radiation.
134.The transfer of heat by radiation does not require any medium.
135.There are three ways in which heat can flow from one object to another. These are conduction, convection and radiation.
136.In solids, generally, the heat is transferred by conduction. In liquids and gases the heat is transferred by convection. No medium is required for transfer of heat by radiation.
137.Woollen clothes keep us warm during winter. It is so because wool is a poor conductor of heat and it has air trapped in between the fibres.
138.Curd, lemon juice, orange juice and vinegar taste sour. These substances taste sour because they contain acids.
139. Substances like these which are bitter in taste and feel soapy on touching are known as bases. The nature of such substances is said to be basic.
140.Special type of substances are used to test whether a substance is acidic or basic. These substances are known as indicators. The indicators change their
        colour when added to a solution containing an acidic or a basic substance. 
141.Acetic acid Vinegar,Formic acid Ant’s sting,Citric acid-(oranges,lemons),Lactic acid -Curd,Tartaric acid-(Tamarind, grapes, unripe mangoes, etc).
142.When litmus When added to an acidic solution, it turns red and when added to a basic solution, it turns blue.
143.The solutions which do not change the colour of either red or blue litmus are known as neutral solutions. These substances are neither acidic nor basic.
144.Acid turn blue litmus to red and base turn red litmus to blue.
145.The reaction between an acid and a base is known as neutralisation. Salt and water are produced in this process with the evolution of heat.
              Acid + Base ------>Salt+ water (Heat is evolved)
146.Each cell in our body contains an acid, the deoxyribonucleic acid or DNA.
147.If you leave a piece of iron in the open for some time, it acquires a film of brownish substance. This substance is called rust and the process is called rusting.
148.When carbon dioxide is passed through lime water, calcium carbonate is formed, which makes lime water milky.
149.For rusting, the presence of both oxygen and water (or water vapour) is essential.
150.This process of depositing a layer of zinc on iron is called galvanisation.
151.Stainless steel is made by mixing iron with carbon and metals like chromium, nickel and manganese. It does not rust.
152.Rainfall is measured by an instrument called the rain gauge.
153.All changes in the weather are caused by the sun.
154.Tropical rainforests are found in Western Ghats and Assam in India, Southeast Asia, Central America and Central Africa. Because of continuous
       warmth and rain, this region supports wide variety of plants and animals.
155.Also, it is important to remember that on heating the air expands and occupies more space. When the same thing occupies more space, it becomes lighter.
      The warm air is, therefore, lighter than the cold air. That is the reason that the smoke goes up.
156.A cyclone is known by different names in different parts of the world. It is called a ‘hurricane’ in the American continent. In Philippines and Japan it is called a ‘typhoon’.
157.Largest gland- Liver 
158.soil is formed by the breaking down of rocks by the action of wind, water and climate.This process is called weathering.
159.Clayey soil is used to make pots, toys and statues.
160.You should know that there are some organisms such as yeast that can survive in the absence of air. They are called anaerobes.
161.The number of times a person breathes in a minute is termed as the breathing rate.
162.During breathing inhalation and exhalation take place alternately. A breath means one inhalation plus one exhalation.
163.Though frogs have a pair of lungs like human beings, they can also breathe through their skin, which is moist and slippery.
164. Leaves of the plants have tiny pores called stomata for exchange of oxygen and carbon dioxide.
165.In earthworm, the exchange of gases occurs through the moist skin. In fishes it takes place through gills and in insects through the tracheae.
166.Blood is the fluid which flows in blood vessels.
167.The fluid part of the blood is called plasma.
168.One type of cells are the red blood cells (RBC) which contain a red pigment called haemoglobin.The presence of haemoglobin makes blood appear red.
169.The blood also has white blood cells (WBC) which fight against germs that may enter our body.
170.Suppose from your body Blood was coming out from the cut. After some time, you noticed that bleeding had stopped and a dark red clot had plugged
      the cut. You get puzzled about this. The clot is formed because of the presence of another type of cells in the blood, called platelets.
171.Two types of blood vessels, arteries and veins are present in the body.
172.Arteries carry oxygen-rich blood from the heart to all parts of the body.
173.The number of beats per minute is called the pulse rate.
174.Veins are the vessels which carry carbon dioxide-rich blood from all parts of the body back to the heart.
175. Heart has four chambers. The two upper chambers are called the atria (singular: atrium) and the two lower chambers are called the ventricles.
176.The English physician, William Harvey discovered the circulation of blood.
178.The waste which is present in the blood has to be removed from the body. How can this be done? A mechanism to filter the blood is required. This is done by
      the blood capillaries in the kidneys. Arteries divide into smaller vessels. On reaching the tissues, they divide further into extremely thin tubes called capillaries. 
      The capillaries join up to form veins which empty into the heart.
179.Sometimes a personís kidneys may stop working due to infection or injury. As a result of kidney failure, waste products start accumulating in the blood. Such persons 
        cannot survive unless their blood is filtered periodically through an artificial kidney. This process is called dialysis.
180.Plants have pipe-like vessels to transport water and nutrients from the soil. The vessels are made of special cells, forming the vascular tissue. A tissue is a group of
      cells that perform specialised function in an organism. The vascular tissue for the transport of water and nutrients in the plant is called the xylem.
181.You know that leaves synthesise food. The food has to be transported to all parts of the plant. This is done by the vascular tissue called the phloem.
       Thus, xylem and phloem transport substances in plants.
182.Arteries carry blood from the heart to all parts of the body.
183.Veins carry blood from all parts of the body back to the heart.
184. The flowers perform the function of reproduction in plants. Flowers are the reproductive parts of a plant.
185.Most plants have roots, stems and leaves. These are called the vegetative parts of a plant.
186.Asexual reproduction in which new plants are produced from roots, stems, leaves and buds. Since reproduction is through the vegetative parts of the plant, it is known as
       vegetative propagation.
187.Remember that yeast is a single-celled organism.
188.Flowers are the reproductive parts of a plant. The stamens are the male reproductive part and the pistil is the female reproductive part.
189.The flowers which contain either only the pistil or only the stamens are called unisexual flowers. The flowers which contain both stamens and pistil
        are called bisexual flowers. Corn, papaya and cucumber produce unisexual flowers, whereas mustard, rose and petunia have bisexual flowers.
190. In sexual reproduction in flower a male and a female gamete fuse(add together) to form a zygote, process is called fertilization.The zygote develops into an embryo.
191. The transfer of pollen from the anther to the stigma of a flower is called pollination.
192.  If soil contains greater proportion of big particles it is called sandy soil. If the proportion of fine particles is relatively higher, then it is called
         clayey soil. If the amount of large and fine particles is about the same, then the soil is called loamy.
193. speed is the total distance covered divided by the total time taken.
194.In everyday life we seldom find objects moving with a constant speed over long distances or for long durations of time. If the speed of an object moving along
       a straight line keeps changing, its motion is said to be non-uniform. On the other hand, an object moving along a straight line with a constant speed
       is said to be in uniform motion.
195.The to and fro motion of a simple pendulum is an example of a periodic or an oscillatory motion.
196.The basic unit of time is a second.
197.unit of speed is m/s.
198.In car dashboard there are two device. One which measure speed is called a speedometer.There is also another meter that measures the distance moved by the vehicle.
      This meter is known as an odometer.
199.Compact fluorescent lamps (CFLs)
200. A fuse is thus a safety device which prevents damages to electrical circuits and possible fires.
201.These days Miniature circuit breakers (MCBs) are increasingly being used in place of fuses.
202.When an electric current flows through a wire, it behaves like a magnet.
203.An image formed by a plane mirror is erect and of the same size as the object.
204.If the reflecting surface of a spherical mirror is concave, it is called a concave mirror. If the reflecting surface is convex, then it is a convex mirror.
205.Can you now recognise the mirrors used as side mirrors in scooters? These are convex mirrors. Convex mirrors can form images of objects spread over a large
      area. So, these help the drivers to see the traffic behind them.
206.A convex lens converges (bends inward) the light generally falling on it. Therefore, it is called a converging lens. On the other hand, a concave lens diverges 
      (bends outward) the light and is called a diverging lens.
207.The micro-organisms which convert the dead plants and animals to humus are known as decomposers.
208.Sewage is wastewater released by homes, industries, hospitals, offices and other users.
209.Wastewater is treated in a sewage treatment plant.
210. Two broad cropping patterns can be identified. These are:
          (i) Kharif Crops : The crops which are sown in the rainy season are called kharif crops. The rainy season in India is generally from June to September.
                                      Paddy, maize, soyabean, groundnut and cotton are kharif crops.
         (ii) Rabi Crops : The crops grown in the winter season (October to March) are called rabi crops. 
                                   Examples of rabi crops are wheat, gram, pea, mustard and linseed.
211.Paddy requires a lot of water. Therefore, it is grown only in the rainy season.
212.The process of loosening and turning of the soil is called tilling or ploughing.
213.The substances which are added to the soil in the form of nutrients for the healthy growth of plants are called manure and fertilisers.
214.In a field many other undesirable plants may grow naturally along with the crop. These undesirable plants are called weeds.
215.Microorganisms are classified into four major groups. These groups are bacteria, fungi, protozoa and some algae.
216. Common ailments like cold, influenza (flu) and most coughs are caused by viruses. Serious diseases like polio and chicken pox are also caused by viruses.
217.Diseases like dysentery and malaria are caused by protozoa(protozoans) whereas typhoid and tuberculosis (TB) are bacterial diseases.
218.Curd contains several microorganisms. Of these, the bacterium, Lactobacillus promotes the formation of curd.
219.This process of conversion of sugar into alcohol is known as fermentation. Louis Pasteur discovered fermentation in 1857.
220.Edward Jenner discovered the vaccine for smallpox in 1798.
221.Microorganisms are harmful in many ways. Some of the microorganisms cause diseases in human beings, plants and animals. 
       Such disease-causing microorganisms are called pathogens.
222.There are some insects and animals which act as carriers of diseasecausing microbes. Housefly is one such carrier. 
223.Another example of a carrier is the female Anopheles mosquito, which carries the parasite of malaria (Plasmodium).
224.Female Aedes mosquito acts as carrier of dengue virus.
225. Human Disease -------Causative Microorganism----Mode of Transmission
            Tuberculosis-------Bacteria--------------------------Air
            Chicken pox-------Virus------------------------------Air/Contact
                  Polio-----------Virus------------------------------Air/Water
                  Cholera-------Bacteria--------------------------Water/Food
                Typhoid-------Bacteria--------------------------Water
              Malaria----------Protozoa-------------------------Mosquito
      Hepatitis A------------Virus------------------------------Water
226.Sir Ronald Ross discovered that mosquito spread malaria.
227.Food energy measured in calories.
228.Salts and edible oils are the common chemicals generally used to check the growth of microorganisms. Therefore they are called preservatives. We add salt or acid 
        preservatives to pickles to prevent the attack of microbes. Sodium benzoate and sodium metabisulphite are common preservatives.
229.Pasteurised milk can be consumed without boiling as it is free from harmful microbes. The milk is heated to about 70 degree Celcius for 15 to 30 seconds and then
       suddenly chilled and stored. By doing so, it prevents the growth of microbes. This process was discovered by Louis Pasteur. It is called pasteurisation.
230.Streptomycin, tetracycline and erythromycin are some of the commonly known antibiotics which are made from fungi and bacteria.
231. Polymers occur in nature also. Cotton, for example, is a polymer called cellulose. Cellulose is made up of a large number of glucose units.
232.PET (polyethylene terephthalate) is a very familiar form of polyester. It is used for making bottles, utensils, films, wires and many other useful products.
233.Such plastic which gets deformed easily on heating and can be bent easily are known as thermoplastics. Polythene and PVC are some of the examples of thermoplastics.
      These are used for manufacturing toys, combs and various types of containers.
234.On the other hand, there are some plastics which when moulded once, can not be softened by heating. These are called thermosetting plastics. Two examples are 
      bakelite and melamine. Bakelite is a poor conductor of heat and electricity. It is used for making electrical switches, handles of variousutensils, etc. Melamine is a versatile
      material. It resists fire and can tolerate heat better than other plastics. It is used for making floor tiles, kitchenware and fabrics which resist fire.
235.Teflon is a special plastic on which oil and water do not stick. It is used for non-stick coating on cookwares.
236.A material which gets decomposed through natural processes, such as action by bacteria, is called biodegradable. A material which is not easily decomposed by 
      natural processes is termed non-biodegradable.
237.The property of metals by which they can be beaten into thin sheets is called malleability.     
238.The property of metal by which it can be drawn into wires is called ductility.
239.Since metals produce ringing sounds, they are said to be sonorous.
240.Mercury is the only metal which is found in liquid state at room temperature.
241.When a copper vessel is exposed to moist air for long, it acquires a dull green coating. The green material is a mixture of copper hydroxide (Cu(OH)2) 
      and copper carbonate (CuCO3).
242.Sodium metal is very reactive. It reacts vigorously with oxygen and water. A lot of heat is generated in the reaction. It is, therefore, stored in kerosene.
243.Phosphorus is a very reactive non-metal. It catches fire if exposed to air. To prevent the contact of phosphorus with atmospheric oxygen, it is stored in water.   
244.On burning, metals react with oxygen to produce metal oxides which are basic in nature. Non-metals react with oxygen to
     produce non- metallic oxides which are acidic in nature.
245.The smallest unit of an element is atom.
246.Exhaustible natural resources like coal, petroleum and natural gas. These were formed from the dead remains of living organisms (fossils). So, these are all known as fossil
        fuels.  
247.As coal contains mainly carbon, the slow process of conversion of dead vegetation into coal is called carbonisation.
248.Coal is processed in industry to get some useful products such as coke, coal tar and coal gas.
249.Coke: It is a tough, porous and black substance. It is an almost pure form of carbon. Coke is used in the manufacture of steel and in the extraction of many metals.
250.Coal Tar: It is a black, thick liquid with an unpleasant smell. It is a mixture of about 200 substances. Products obtained from coal tar are used as starting materials for 
      manufacturing various substances used in everyday life and in industry, like synthetic dyes, drugs, explosives, perfumes, plastics, paints, photographic materials,
      roofing materials, etc. Interestingly, naphthalene balls used to repel moths and other insects are also obtained from coal tar.
251.Coal Gas: Coal gas is obtained during the processing of coal to get coke. It is used as a fuel  in many industries situated
       near the coal processing plants.
252.Petrol and diesel are obtained from a natural resource called petroleum.
253.Petroleum was formed from organisms living in the sea. As these organisms died, their bodies settled at the bottom of the sea and got covered with layers of sand and clay. 
      Over millions of years, absence of air, high temperature and high pressure.
254.petroleum is also called ‘black gold’.
255.The lowest temperature at which a substance catches fire is called its ignition temperature.
251.The substances which have very low ignition temperature and can easily catch fire with a flame are called inflammable substances. Examples of inflammable 
       substances are petrol, alcohol, Liquified Petroleum Gas (LPG) etc.
252.The amount of heat energy produced on complete combustion of 1 kg of a fuel is called its calorific value.
253.The calorific value of a fuel is expressed in a unit called kilojoule per kg (kJ/kg).
254. Red Data Book is the source book which keeps a record of all the endangered animals and plants. Red Data Book is maintained internationally by an organisation.
255.Biodiversity refers to the variety of living organisms in a specific area.
256.Robert Hooke in 1665 discovered cell.
257.The single-celled organisms are called unicellular.A single-celled organism, like amoeba
258.A white blood cell (WBC) in human blood is another example of a single cell which can change its shape.
259.Each organ is further made up of smaller parts called tissues. A tissue is a group of similar cells performing a specific function.
260.Cell membrane gives shape to the cell. 
261.The basic components of a cell are cell membrane, cytoplasm and nucleus. The cytoplasm and nucleus are enclosed within the cell membrane, 
       also called the plasma membrane. 
262.Nucleus : It is an important component of the living cell. It is generally spherical and located in the centre of the cell.
263.Nucleus is separated from the cytoplasm by a membrane called the nuclear membrane.
264. Nucleus contains thread-like structures called chromosomes.These carry genes and help in inheritance or transfer of characters from the parents to the offspring.
265.Nucleus, in addition to its role in inheritance, acts as control centre of the activities of the cell. The entire content of a living cell is known as protoplasm.
       It includes the cytoplasm and the nucleus. Protoplasm is called the living substance of the cell.
266.You might have noticed several small coloured bodies in the cytoplasm of the cells of Tradescantia leaf. They are scattered in the cytoplasm of the leaf cells. 
       These are called plastids. They are of different colours. Some of them contain green pigment called chlorophyll. Green coloured plastids are called chloroplasts. 
       They provide green colour to the leaves. You may recall that chlorophyll in the chloroplasts of leaves, is essential for photosynthesis.
267.Cytoplasm which contains smaller components called organelles.
268.Plant cells differ from animal cells in having an additional layer around the cell membrane termed cell wall.
269.Coloured bodies called plastids are found in the plant cells only. Green plastids containing chlorophyll are called chloroplasts.
270.Test Tube babies-  In some women oviducts are blocked. These women are unable to bear babies because sperms cannot reach the egg for
        fertilisation. In such cases, doctors collect freshly released egg and sperms and keep them together for a few hours for IVF or in vitro
        fertilisation (fertilisation outside the body). 
271.Fertilisation results in the formation of zygote which begins to develop into an embryo.
272. The transformation of the larva into an adult through drastic changes is called metamorphosis. 
273.Reproduction resulting from the fusion of male and female gametes is called sexual reproduction.
274.The reproductive organs in the female include ovaries, oviducts and uterus.
275.The reproductive organs in male include testes, sperm ducts and penis.
276.The ovary produces female gametes called ova and the testes produce male gametes called sperms.
277.The fusion of ovum and sperm is called fertilisation. The fertilised egg is called a zygote.
278.The zygote divides repeatedly to give rise to an embryo.The embryo gets embedded in the wall of the uterus for further development.
279.The stage of the embryo in which all the body parts are identifiable is called foetus.
280.Amoeba reproduces by dividing itself into two. This type of asexual reproduction is called binary fission.
281.The changes which occur at adolescence are controlled by hormones. 
282.Hormones are chemical substances. These are secretions from endocrine glands.
283.The male hormone or testosterone,  female hormone or estrogen.
284.Milk secreting glands or mammary glands develop inside the breasts.
285. Menstruation occurs once in about 28 to 30 days. The first menstrual flow begins at puberty and is termed menarche. At 45 to 50 years
       of age, the menstrual cycle stops. Stoppage of menstruation is termed menopause.
286. ‘goitre’, a disease of the thyroid gland. It is because thyroid gland was not producing the hormone thyroxine.
287. If some one suffering from  ‘diabetes’ because his pancreas was not producing the hormone insulin in sufficient quantities.
288.Adrenal glands secrete hormones which maintain the correct salt balance in the blood. Adrenals also produce the hormone
       adrenalin. It helps the body to adjust to stress when one is very angry, embarrassed or worried.
289.Thyroid and adrenals secrete their hormones when they receive orders from the pituitary through its hormones. Pituitary also secretes growth hormone
       which is necessary for the normal growth of a person.
290.Tadpole passes through certain stages to become a frog.This change from larva to adult is called metamorphosis. Metamorphosis in insects is controlled
        by insect hormones. In a frog, it is controlled by thyroxine, the hormone produced by thyroid. Thyroxine production requires the presence of
        iodine in water. If the water in which the tadpoles are growing does not contain sufficient iodine, the tadpoles cannot become adults.
291.Sex chromosomes of the father determine the sex of an unborn baby. 
292.Endocrine glands release hormones into the bloodstream to reach a particular body part called target site. The target site responds to the hormone.
293. The strength of a force is usually expressed by its magnitude.
294. Net force on an object is zero if the two forces acting on it in opposite directions are equal.
295.When we push an object like a school bag or lift a bucket of water, where does the force come from? This force is caused by the action of muscles in our body.
      The force resulting due to the action of muscles is known as the muscular force.
296.Since muscular force can be applied only when it is in contact with an object, it is also called a contact force.
297. It is the force of friction between the surface of the ball and the ground that brings the moving ball to rest.
298.A magnet can exert a force on another magnet without being in contact with it. The force exerted by a magnet is an example of a non-contact force. 
299.The force exerted by a charged body on another charged or uncharged body is known as electrostatic force. 
300.Objects or things fall towards the earth because it pulls them. This force is called the force of gravity, or just gravity. We can say due to gravitational force.
301. Winds and cyclones are caused by the differences in air pressure.
302.The force acting on a unit area of a surface is called pressure.The unit of pressure is Pascal (Pa).
           pressure = force / area on which it acts 
303.The pressure exerted by air is known as atmospheric pressure.
304.The force of friction always opposes the applied force.
305.The force required to overcome friction at the instant an object starts moving from rest is a measure of static friction. On the other hand, the force
       required to keep the object moving with the same speed is a measure of sliding friction.
306. The substances which reduce friction are called lubricants.
307.When one body rolls over the surface of another body, the resistance to its motion is called rolling friction. Rolling reduces friction. It is always easier to
       roll than to slide a body over another. That is the reason it is convenient to pull luggage fitted with rollers.
308.The frictional force exerted by fluids is also called drag.
309.Static friction comes into play when we try to move an object at rest.
310.Sliding friction comes into play when an object is sliding over another.Sliding friction is smaller than static friction.
311.Rolling friction is smaller than sliding friction.
312.When air has been removed completely from a vessel, it is said that there is a vacuum in the vessel.
313.Frequency is expressed in hertz. Its symbol is Hz.
314. The loudness is expressed in a unit called decibel (dB). 
315.The loudness of sound depends on its amplitude. When the amplitude of vibration is large, the sound produced is loud.
316.The frequency determines the shrillness or pitch of a sound.
317.In human beings, the vibration of the vocal cords produces sound.
318.Sound travels through a medium (gas, liquid or solid). It cannot travel in vacuum.
319. For human ear, the range of audible frequencies is roughly from 20 to 20,000 Hz.
320.Larger the amplitude of vibration, the louder is the sound.
321.Higher the frequency of vibration, the higher is the pitch, and shriller is the sound.
322.The process of depositing a layer of any desired metal on another material, by means of electricity, is called electroplating.
323.Such a device can be used to test whether an object is carrying charge or not. This device is known as electroscope.
324.The process of transferring of charge from a charged object to the earth is called earthing.
325.Uppermost layer of the earth called the crust.
326.The outermost layer of the earth is not in one piece. It is fragmented. Each fragment is called a plate.
327.Earthquakes are caused by the movement of plates, volcano eruption,meteor hits the earth,underground nuclear explosion.
328.The power of an earthquake is expressed in terms of a magnitude on a scale called the Richter scale.
329.The tremors produce waves on the surface of the earth. These are called seismic waves. The waves are recorded by an instrument called the seismograph.
330.Like charges repel and unlike charges attract each other.
331.The electrical charges produced by rubbing are called static charges.
332.When charges move, they constitute an electric current.
333.Earthquakes tend to occur at the boundaries of earth’s plates. These boundaries are known as fault zones.
334.The light ray, which strikes any surface, is called the incident ray. The ray that comes back from the surface after reflection is known as the reflected ray.
335. A line making an angle of 90º to the line representing the mirror at the point where the incident ray strikes the mirror. This line is known as the normal to the 
        reflecting surface at that point.
336.The angle between the normal and incident ray is called the angle of incidence (angle i). The angle between the normal and the reflected ray is known as the angle of
       reflection (angle r).
337. The angle of incidence is always equal to the angle of reflection. This is one of the laws of reflection.
338. The incident ray, the normal at the point of incidence and the reflected ray all lie in the same plane. This is another law of reflection.
339.Image formed by a mirror the left of the object appears on the right and the right appears on the left. This is known as lateral inversion.
340.Nearly everything you see around is seen due to reflected light.
341.The objects which shine in the light of other objects are called illuminated objects. The objects which emit their own light are known as luminous objects.
342.Splitting of light into its colours is known as dispersion of light.
343. There are two kinds of cells in our eye– (i) cones, which are sensitive to bright light and (ii) rods, which are sensitive to dim light
344.Cones sense colour.
345.Louis Braille developed a system for visually challenged persons and published it in 1821.
346.Two mirrors inclined to each other give multiple images.
347.Parts of the eye are cornea, iris, pupil, lens, retina and optic nerve.
348.The study of celestial objects and associated phenomena is called astronomy.
349.The day on which the whole disc of the moon is visible is known as the full moon day.Thereafter, every night the size of the bright part of the moon appears to 
     become thinner and thinner. On the fifteenth day the moon is not visible. This day is known as the ‘new moon day’. The next day, only a small portion of the moon 
     appears in the sky. This is known as the crescent moon.Then again the moon grows larger every day. On the fifteenth day once again we get a full view of the moon.
350.Remember that the moon revolves around the Earth. The Earth along with the moon, revolves around the Sun.
351.There is actually a star, the pole star, which is situated in the direction of the earth’s axis. It does not appear to move.
352.The star Sirius, which is the brightest star in the sky, is located close to Orion.
353.A planet has a definite path in which it revolves around the Sun. This path is called an orbit.
354.When the shadow of the Earth falls on the moon, it causes lunar eclipse,When the shadow of the moon falls on the Earth, it causes solar eclipse.
355.Venus is earth’s nearest planetary neighbour. It is the brightest planet in the night sky.
356.Venus has no moon or satellite of its own. Rotation of Venus on its axis is somewhat unusual. It rotates from east to west while the Earth rotates from west to east.
357.Chandrayaan-1 was India's first lunar probe. India's first lunar mission finds water on moon.It was launched by the Indian Space Research Organisation in October 2008, 
       and operated until August 2009. The mission included a lunar orbiter and an impactor. It was launched  from Satish Dhawan Space Centre, Sriharikota, by the 
        PSLV C-11 on 22 October 2008. The spacecraft was orbiting around the Moon at a height of 100 km from the lunar surface for chemical, mineralogical and 
        photo-geologic mapping of the Moon.
376. Mangalyaan - Indian Space Research Organisation (ISRO) launched India’s first Mars orbiter mission – Mangalyaan, on November 5, 2013. It was successfully
        placed into an orbit of Mars on September 24, 2014. With this India became the first country in the world to do so in its first attempt.
377. Earth Equator- An imaginary line around the Earth forming the great circle that is equidistant from the north and south poles.
378.The plane of the equator is called the equatorial plane.
379.The plane in which the Earth revolves round the Sun is called the orbital plane of the Earth.
380.These two planes are inclined to each other at an angle of 23.5º. This means that the axis of the Earth is inclined to its orbital plane at an angle of 66.5º.
381. Saturn which appears yellowish in colour.One interesting thing about Saturn is that it is the least dense among all the planets. Its density is less than that of water.
382. Venus, Uranus also rotates from east to west.
383.The phases of the moon occur because we can see only that part of the moon which reflects the light of the Sun towards us.
384.A body revolving around another body is called a satellite.
385.chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) which are used in refrigerators, air conditioners and aerosol sprays. CFCs damage the ozone layer of the atmosphere.
386.The trapping of radiations by the earth’s atmosphere is similar. That is why it is called the greenhouse effect.
387.CO2 traps heat and does not allow it to escape into space. As a result, the average temperature of the earth’s atmosphere is gradually increasing. This is called
      global warming.
388.Many countries have reached an agreement to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases. The Kyoto Protocol is one such agreement.
389.An ambitious plan to save the river, called the Ganga Action Plan was launched in 1985.
390.Government of India has launched a new initiative known as National Mission for Clean Ganga (NMCG) in 2016.
391.Chlorination is a commonly used chemical method for purifying water. It is done by adding chlorine tablets or bleaching powder to the water.
392.Water which is purified and fit for drinking is known as potable water. 
393.Particles of matter are continuously moving, that is, they possess what we call the kinetic energy. As the temperature rises, particles move faster. So, we can say that with
      increase in temperature the kinetic energy of the particles also increases.
394. Particles of matter intermix on their own with each other. They do so by getting into the spaces between the particles. This intermixing of particles of two different types
        of matter on their own is called diffusion.We also observe that on heating, diffusion becomes faster. 
395.The minimum temperature at which a solid melts to become a liquid at the atmospheric pressure is called its melting point.
396.The word latent means hidden. The amount of heat energy that is required to change 1 kg of a solid into liquid at atmospheric pressure at its melting
      point is known as the latent heat of fusion.
397.The temperature at which a liquid starts boiling at the atmospheric pressure is known as its boiling point.
398. Kelvin is the SI unit of temperature, 0 degree C =273.15 K. For convenience, we take 0 degree C = 273 K.
399.Solid carbon dioxide is also known as dry ice.
400.A change of state directly from solid to gas without changing into liquid state is called sublimation and the direct change of gas to solid without changing into 
      liquid is called deposition.
401. Atmosphere (atm) is a unit of measuring pressure exerted by a gas.
402. The atmospheric pressure at sea level is 1 atmosphere.
403.We know that evaporation is a surface phenomenon. If the surface area is increased, the rate of evaporation increases. For example, while putting
       clothes for drying up we spread them out.
404. Five states of matter: Solid, Liquid, Gas, Plasma and BoseEinstein Condensate.
405. Bulb there is neon gas and inside a fluorescent tube there is helium gas.
406.Inside tube or bulb gas gets ionised, that is, gets charged when electrical energy flows through it. This charging up creates a plasma glowing inside the tube or bulb.
407. The Sun and the stars glow because of the presence of plasma in them. The plasma is created in stars because of very high temperature.
408.The forces of attraction between the particles are maximum in solids, intermediate in liquids and minimum in gases. 
409.The arrangement of particles is most ordered in the case of solids, in the case of liquids layers of particles can slip and slide over each other while for gases, 
       there is no order, particles just move about randomly.
410.Alloys: Alloys are mixtures of two or more metals or a metal and a non-metal and cannot be separated into their components by physical methods. But
       still, an alloy is considered as a mixture because it shows the properties of its constituents and can have variable composition. For example, brass is a
        mixture of approximately 30% zinc and 70% copper.
411.A solution of sugar in water is a solid in liquid solution. In this solution, sugar is the solute and water is the solvent.
412.A solution of iodine in alcohol known as ‘tincture of iodine’, has iodine (solid) as the solute and alcohol (liquid) as the solvent.
413.There are various ways of expressing the concentration of a solution, but here we will learn only three methods.
       (i) Mass by mass percentage of a solution--  Mass of solute/Mass of solution  x 100
       (ii) Mass by volume percentage of a solution--  Mass of solute/Volume of solution  x 100
       (iii) Volume by volume percentage of a solution-- Volume of solute/Volume of solution  x 100
414.Tyndall effect can also be observed when a fine beam of light enters a room through a small hole. This happens due to the scattering of light
       by the particles of dust and smoke in the air.
415.This process of separation of components of a mixture is known as chromatography.
416.The crystallisation method is used to purify solids. For example, the salt we get from sea water can have many impurities in it. To remove these impurities, the process of
       crystallisation is used. Crystallisation is a process that separates a pure solid in the form of its crystals from a solution. 
417.Materials that are insoluble in a solvent and have particles that are visible to naked eyes, form a suspension. A suspension is a heterogeneous mixture.
418.Law of conservation of mass states that mass can neither be created nor destroyed in a chemical reaction.
419.In a compound such as water, the ratio of the mass of hydrogen to the mass of oxygen is always 1:8, whatever the source of water.
420. In ammonia, nitrogen and hydrogen are always present in the ratio 14:3 by mass, whatever the method or the source from which it is obtained.
421.These ratio led to the law of constant proportions which is also known as the law of definite proportions. This law was stated by Proust as
      “In a chemical substance the elements are always present in definite proportions by mass”.
422.Dalton was the first scientist to use the symbols for elements in a very specific sense.
423.IUPAC (International Union of Pure and Applied Chemistry) is an international scientific organisation which approves names of elements, symbols and units.
424.A molecule of oxygen consists of two atoms of oxygen and hence it is known as a diatomic molecule, O2 . If 3 atoms of oxygen unite into a molecule, instead
       of the usual 2, we get ozone, O3 . The number of atoms constituting a molecule is known as its atomicity.
425.Thus, the ratio by number of atoms for water is H:O = 2:1.
426.Alexandre edmond Becquerel discover solar energy and solar panel.
427.Carbon monoxide(co) is produce when fuel is burned.
428.Aceone(C3H6o) chemical is used in nail polish remover.
429.Lavoisier is the father of modern chemistry.
430.Electron(remember it have negative charge) is discovered by J J thomson &  E. Goldstein.Neutron is discoverd by James chadwick.
431.Soft water and soda water mainly contains carbon dioxide.
432.Aqua-Regia is used to clean the surface of the gold(Au)..
433.Acetylene fuel is used in gas welding..
434.Phenomenon of radioactivity-Emission of alpha, Beta, Gama particles.
435.Complete digestion of carbohydrate, fats, protein take place in small intestine.
436.SI unit of charge is coulomb.
437.Standard room temprature is 298 kelvin.
438.Plants that have lost their capaity to produce seeds reprodice by Vegitative propagation.
439.Atoms form molecules and ions. These molecules or ions aggregate in large numbers to form the matter that we can see, feel or touch.
440.A negatively charged ion is called an ‘anion’ and the positively charged ion, a ‘cation’.
441.During a chemical reaction, the sum of the masses of the reactants and products remains unchanged. This is known as the Law of Conservation of Mass.
442.Atoms and molecules are the fundamental building blocks of matter.
443. E. Goldstein in 1886 discovered the presence of new radiations in a gas discharge and called them canal rays.
444.J.J. Thomson was the first one to propose a model for the structure of an atom.
445.E. Rutherford ,He was known as the ‘Father’ of nuclear physics. He is famous for his work on radioactivity and the discovery of the nucleus of an atom with
       the gold foil experiment. He got the Nobel prize in chemistry in 1908.
446. The mass number is defined as the sum of the total number of protons and neutrons present in the nucleus of an atom. It is denoted by ‘A’.
447.Atomic number is defined as the total number of protons present in the nucleus of an atom.
448.Atoms of some elements have been identified, which have the same atomic number but different mass numbers. 
449.Protons and neutrons are also called nucleons.
450. Atoms of different elements with different atomic numbers, which have the same mass number, are known as isobars.
451.J.J. Thomson proposed that electrons are embedded in a positive sphere.
452.Elements are defined by the number of protons they possess.
453.Plastids are present only in plant cells. There are two types of plastids – chromoplasts (coloured plastids) and leucoplasts (white or colourless plastids).
        Chromoplasts containing the pigment chlorophyll are known as chloroplasts. Chloroplasts are important for photosynthesis in plants. Chloroplasts also
        contain various yellow or orange pigments in addition to chlorophyll. Leucoplasts are primarily organelles in which materials such as starch, oils and protein
        granules are stored.The primary function of leucoplasts is storage.
454. Lysosomes are a kind of waste disposal system of the cell.. These help to keep the cell clean by digesting any foreign material as well as worn-out cell
       organelles. Foreign materials entering the cell, such as bacteria or food, as well as old organelles end up in the lysosomes, which break complex substances into simpler
       substances. Lysosomes are able to do this because they contain powerful digestive enzymes capable of breaking down all organic material. 
455.The process by which new cells are made is called cell division. There are two main types of cell division: mitosis and meiosis.
456.Amoeba, a single cell carries out movement, intake of food, gaseous exchange and excretion.
457.Parenchyma is the most common simple permanent tissue.In some situations, it contains chlorophyll and performs photosynthesis, and then it is called chlorenchyma. 
458. In aquatic plants, large air cavities are present in parenchyma to help them float. Such a parenchyma type is called aerenchyma.
459.In plant outermost layer of cells, called epidermis. The entire surface of a plant has an outer covering epidermis. It protects all the parts of the plant.
460.Epidermal cells of the roots, whose function is water absorption, commonly bear long hairlike parts that greatly increase the total absorptive surface area.
461.During breathing we inhale oxygen. Where does this oxygen go? It is absorbed in the lungs and then is transported to all the body cells through blood.
462. Blood is a type of connective tissue, and muscle forms muscular tissue.Bone is another example of a connective tissue.
463.Blood has a fluid (liquid) matrix called plasma, in which red blood corpuscles (RBCs), white blood corpuscles (WBCs) and platelets are suspended. 
      The plasma contains proteins, salts and hormones. Blood flows and transports gases, digested food, hormones and waste materials to different parts of the body.
464.Bone cells are embedded in a hard matrix that is composed of calcium and phosphorus compounds.
465.Two bones can be connected to each other by another type of connective tissue called the ligament.
466.Another type of connective tissue, cartilage, has widely spaced cells. The solid matrix is composed of proteins and sugars. Cartilage smoothens bone surfaces at joints
       and is also present in the nose, ear, trachea and larynx. We can fold the cartilage of the ears, but we cannot bend the bones in our arms.
467. Tendons connect muscles to bones and are another type of connective tissue. Tendons are fibrous tissue with great strength but limited flexibility.
468.Areolar connective tissue is found between the skin and muscles, around blood vessels and nerves and in the bone marrow.
469.Where are fats stored in our body? Fat storing adipose tissue is found below the skin and between internal organs. The cells of this tissue are filled with fat globules. 
      Storage of fats also lets it act as an insulator.
470.Muscular tissue consists of elongated cells, also called muscle fibres. This tissue is responsible for movement in our body.
471.Muscles present in our limbs move when we want them to, and stop when we so decide. Such muscles are called voluntary muscles.
472. The brain, spinal cord and nerves are all composed of the nervous tissue. The cells of this tissue are called nerve cells or neurons.
473.The signal that passes along the nerve fibre is called a nerve impulse. Nerve impulses allow us to move our muscles when we want to.
474.Plant tissues are of two main types – meristematic and permanent.
475.Parenchyma, collenchyma and sclerenchyma are three types of simple tissues. Xylem and phloem are types of complex tissues.
476.Striated, unstriated and cardiac are three types of muscle tissues.
477.Nervous tissue is made of neurons that receive and conduct impulses.
478.Charles Darwin first described this idea of evolution in 1859 in his book, The Origin of Species.
479.The SI unit of speed is metre per second. This is represented by the symbol m s–1 or m/s.
480.Average speed= Total distance travelled/ Total time taken.
481.The rate of motion of an object can be more comprehensive if we specify its direction of motion along with its speed. The quantity that
       specifies both these aspects is called velocity. Velocity is the speed of an object moving in a definite direction.
482.Speed and velocity have the same units, that is m/s.
483. The SI unit of acceleration is m/ s pow 2.
484.The motion of a freely falling body is an example of uniformly accelerated motion.
485.The velocity of an object can be uniform or variable. It can be changed by changing the object’s speed, direction of motion or both.
486.If an object travels in a straight line and its velocity increases or decreases by equal amounts in equal intervals of time, then the acceleration of the object is said to be
       uniform. The motion of a freely falling body is an example of uniformly accelerated motion. 
487.When an object moves in a circular path with uniform speed, its motion is called uniform circular motion.
488.The speed of an object is the distance covered per unit time, and velocity is the displacement per unit time.
489.The motion of an object could be uniform or non-uniform depending on whether its velocity is constant or changing.
490.By Centrifugation process we can make butter from curd.
491.Gravitational force exerted on a mass, called Weight.
492.If an object moves in a circular path with uniform speed, its motion is called uniform circular motion.
493.Friction always act in a direction opposite to the push.
494.Laws of Motion given by Newton-
                 1.An object remains in a state of rest or of uniform motion in a straight line unless compelled to change that state by an applied force.Also known as Law of Inertia.
                 2.The second law of motion states that the rate of change of momentum of an object is proportional to the applied unbalanced force in the direction of force
                 3. To every action there is an equal and opposite reaction
495. Tendency of undisturbed objects to stay at rest or to keep moving with the same velocity is called inertia.
496.When a motorcar makes a sharp turn at a high speed, we tend to get thrown to one side. This can again be explained on the basis of the law of inertia. We tend to continue in
       our straight-line motion. When an unbalanced force is applied by the engine to change the direction of motion of the motorcar, we slip to one side of the seat due
       to the inertia of our body.
497. Heavier or more massive objects offer larger inertia.
498.Zacharias janseen invented micrscope.
499.o negative blood grup is the universal doner.
500.Purest form of carbon is Fullerene( Shape of spherical hollow cage like a soccer ball with 60 carbon atom).
501. The inertia of an object is measured by its mass.
502. Momentum was introduced by Newton.
503.Impact produced by the objects depends on their mass and velocity.
504. The SI unit of momentum is kilogram-metre per second (kg m/s). P = mv (mass x velocity)
505. The SI units of mass and acceleration are kg and m/s respectively.
506.The unit of force is kg m s-2 or newton, which has the symbol N.
507.Farm animals require proper care and management such as shelter, feeding, breeding and disease control. This is called animal husbandry.
507.Bee-keeping is done to get honey and wax.
508.The growing of different crops on a piece of land in pre-planned succession is called crop rotation.
509.Growing two or more crops in definite row patterns is known as inter-cropping.
510.Mixed cropping is growing of two or more crops simultaneously on the same piece of land.
511.Some diseases last for only very short periods of time, and these are called acute diseases. Other ailments can last for a long time, even as much as a lifetime, and are
        called chronic diseases. 
512. Diseases like typhoid ,fever, cholera, tuberculosis and anthrax are caused by bacteria.
513.The antibiotic penicillin blocks the bacterial processes that build the cellwall.
514.The motion of the moon around the earth is due to the centripetal force. The centripetal force is provided by the force of attraction of the earth.
515. All objects in the universe attract each other. This force of attraction between objects is called the gravitational force.
516.The value of G was found out by Henry Cavendish (1731 – 1810) by using a sensitive balance. The accepted value of G is 6.673 × 10 pow –11 N m pow 2  kg pow –2.
517.Weight of the object on the moon = (1/6) × its weight on the earth.
518. Net force in a particular direction (thrust) and the force per unit area (pressure).
519.SI unit of pressure is called pascal, denoted as Pa. Pressure= Thrust/area.
520.The upward force exerted by the water on the bottle is known as upthrust or buoyant force. In fact, all objects experience a force of
       buoyancy when they are immersed in a fluid. The magnitude of this buoyant force depends on the density of the fluid.
521. Objects of density less than that of a liquid float on the liquid. The objects of density greater than that of a liquid sink in the liquid.
522.Unit of work is newton metre (N m) or joule (J).
523.The unit of energy is, therefore, the same as that of work, that is, joule (J).
524.Objects in motion possess energy. We call this energy kinetic energy. The kinetic energy of an object increases with its speed.
525.You transfer energy when you stretch a rubber band. The energy transferred to the band is its potential energy.
526.An object increases its energy when raised through a height. This is because work is done on it against gravity while it is being raised. The energy present in such an object
       is the gravitational potential energy.
527.The sum of kinetic energy and potential energy of an object is its total mechanical energy.
528.Power measures the speed of work done, that is, how fast or slow work is done. Power is defined as the rate of doing work or the rate of transfer of energy.
          Power = work/Time
529.The unit of power is watt [in honour of James Watt (1736 – 1819)] having the symbol W.
530.Sound can not travel through vaccume. 
531.If you streach a spring continiously.The regions where the coils become closer are called compressions (C) and the regions where the coils are further apart are called
       rarefactions (R).
532.Sound waves are longitudinal waves.
533.When we drop a pebble in a pond, the waves you see on the water surface is an example of transverse wave.
534.The distance between two consecutive compressions (C) or two consecutive rarefactions (R) is called the wavelength, The wavelength is usually represented by 
        (Greek letter lambda). Its SI unit is metre (m).
535.The SI unit of frequency was named as hertz.
536.Low pitch sound has low frequency and high pitch of sound has high frequency.
537.Soft sound has small amplitude and louder sound has large amplitude.
538.The speed of sound depends on the properties of the medium through which it travels.
539. When the speed of any object exceeds the speed of sound it is said to be travelling at supersonic speed.
540.The audible range of sound for human beings extends from about 20 Hz to 20000 Hz.
541. Sounds of frequencies below 20 Hz are called infrasonic sound or infrasound.
542. It is observed that some animals get disturbed before earthquakes. Earthquakes produce low-frequency infrasound before the main shock waves
       begin which possibly alert the animals.
543.Frequencies higher than 20 kHz are called ultrasonic sound or ultrasound.
544.Ultrasonic waves are made to reflect from various parts of the heart and form the image of the heart. This technique is called ‘echocardiography’.
545.Ultrasound scanner is an instrument which uses ultrasonic waves for getting images of internal organs of the human body.
546.A doctor may image the patient’s organs such as the liver, gall bladder, uterus, kidney, etc. It helps the doctor to detect abnormalities, such as stones in the
       gall bladder and kidney or tumours in different organs. In this technique the ultrasonic waves travel through the tissues of the body and get
       reflected from a region where there is a change of tissue density. These waves are then converted into electrical signals that are used to generate images of the organ. These
        images are then displayed on a monitor or printed on a film. This technique is called ‘ultrasonography’.
547.SONAR stands for Sound Navigation And Ranging. Sonar is a device that uses ultrasonic waves to measure the distance, direction and speed of underwater objects.
548.The speed of sound depends primarily on the nature and the temperature of the transmitting medium.
549.The persistence of sound in an auditorium is the result of repeated reflections of sound and is called reverberation.
550.

